Olive Release Notes (#2093)
openedx/edx-documentation: en_us/open_edx_release_notes/source/olive.rst

 :depth: 1
 :local:

Breaking Changes
================

All grades are persisted
------------------------
The Persistent Grades feature was added as an option in Hawthorne. Legacy, non-persistent grades were deprecated in Nutmeg. Now, persistent grades are required. If you have not turned on persistent grades in your installation yet, you will need to follow the instructions in `How to Enable Persistent Grades`_. This process can take a significant amount of time, depending on how many graded problems are in your installation, and how long those grades take to be calculated. It can be run before or after the upgrade.

> .. _How to Enable Persistent Grades: https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AC/pages/755171487/WIP+How+to+Enable+Persistent+Grades+in+Hawthorne

Reviewer: This page was written from the perspective of a Hawthorne-era edx.org developer. I reworked it and renamed it to make more sense for the Olive release.
```suggestion
.. _Migrating to Persistent Grading: https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AC/pages/755171487/Migrating+to+Persistent+Grading
```

Learning MFE is now required
----------------------------
The Learning Micro Frontend (MFE) is no longer optional, and must be run as part of your installation now. It has been the default since the Maple release, with a setting that allowed for opting out. The setting :code:`courseware.use_legacy_frontend` has been removed. (See Deprecations & Removals below for more).

Learner Experiences
===================

Learner Records Micro-frontend (MFE)
------------------------------------

- The Learner records MFE is now available as an optional frontend for the Credentials application (or is it a plugin?). See the `Learner Records MFE README`_ for configuration information.
- Even if the the Learner Records MFE is turned on, the old UI is still used for public links to records. This will be changed in the Palm release. (this may have been backported already)
- Masquerading is not supported, as it is in the legacy UI. Use the "Records" tab in support tools as an alternative.

.. _Learner Records MFE README: https://github.com/openedx/frontend-app-learner-record/blob/open-release/olive.master/README.rst

Administrators & Operators
==========================

> - fixed a performance issue when using multiple themes when running in docker. Now by using LRU cache when searching themes,  the performance was improved.

Reviewer: @dcoa @arbrandes @ghassanmas We will want to bring up [MFE Runtime Config](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-wg/issues/103) in these notes, both in terms of the new benefits as well as the breaking changes to tutor-mfe.

Reviewer 2: I am happy to collaborate on this, from tutor-mfe side speaking there is now the olive overhangio/tutor-mfe/pull/66 which I suppose probably would entail docs about the breaking changes because of the dynamic config. 
Secondaly, do we need to cross post those info or just to announce that _tutor-mfe in Olive has a breaking chanegs and please review instursction at <insert link tutor-mfe readme.rst file>_

Other thing I think worth mentioning is that from Olive, 
- you can run/start openedx without buildling the MFE image, _so about 25 minutes saved_.
- You wouldn't need to rebuild the image when changing configuration like `SITE_NAME` 
- More info _link for tutor-mfe readme file_

Reviewer 3: How about:

```suggestion

MFE runtime configuration support
---------------------------------

Where up until Nutmeg it was only possible to change a micro-frontend's settings at build time, it is now possible to do so at both server _and_ browser runtime via a new configuration mechanism.  In addition to the added convenience, this significantly reduces the frequency at which MFE container images need to be rebuilt.  Many operators will never have to build them to begin with, as pre-built ones can be (and are) provided, thus saving up precious time and resources on deployment.

This behavior is optional and controlled by the :code:`ENABLE_MFE_CONFIG_API` Django setting in the LMS, and the :code:`APP_ID` and :code:`MFE_CONFIG_API_URL` MFE build-time settings.  The actual runtime configuration can then be specified via the :code:`MFE_CONFIG` and :code:`MFE_CONFIG_OVERRIDES` variables in the LMS.  (These can also be overriden via `site configuration <https://edx.readthedocs.io/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/latest/configuration/sites/configure_site.html>`_, with the effect that such configuration can be changed dynamically via the backing database.)  For more details, refer to the `corresponding architecture decision record <https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/blob/open-release/olive.master/lms/djangoapps/mfe_config_api/docs/decisions/0001-mfe-config-api.rst>`_.

Other Operator Experience changes
---------------------------------
- fixed a performance issue when using multiple themes when running in docker. Now by using LRU cache when searching themes,  the performance was improved.
```

 :depth: 1
 :local:

Breaking Changes
================

All grades are persisted
------------------------
The Persistent Grades feature was added as an option in Hawthorne. Legacy, non-persistent grades were deprecated in Nutmeg. Now, persistent grades are required. If you have not turned on persistent grades in your installation yet, when you upgrade to Olive, grades will not appear on learners' Progress page or in data downloads. You must follow the instructions in `Migrating to Persistent Grading`_ for grades to appear. This process can take a significant amount of time, depending on how many graded problems are in your installation, and how long those grades take to be calculated. It can be run before or after the upgrade.

.. _Migrating to Persistent Grading: https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AC/pages/755171487/Migrating+to+Persistent+Grading

Learning MFE is now required
----------------------------

> The Learning Micro Frontend (MFE) is no longer optional, and must be run as part of your installation now. It has been the default since the Maple release, with a setting that allowed for opting out. The setting :code:`courseware.use_legacy_frontend` has been removed. (See Deprecations & Removals below for more).

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: the "now" feels a bit redundant.

```suggestion
The Learning Micro Frontend (MFE) is no longer optional, and must be run as part of your installation. It has been the default since the Maple release, with a setting that allowed for opting out. The setting :code:`courseware.use_legacy_frontend` has been removed. (See Deprecations & Removals below for more).
```

JWT access tokens expire in 1 hour
----------------------------------
The default expiration for JWT access tokens is now one hour. This default setting can be overriden by setting :code:`JWT_ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRE_SECONDS`.

Learner Experiences
===================

Authentication Micro-Frontend (MFE)
-----------------------------------

The Authentication MFE is responsible for the login, registration and password reset functionality. It is enabled by default in Olive and has all the same features as the legacy login and registration pages. You can revert to the legacy experience by setting :code:`FEATURES['ENABLE_AUTHN_MICROFRONTEND']` to False.

.. image:: ../images/olive/authn.png
    :alt: The authentication Micro-frontend

There are a number of settings that affect this experience. See the `Authentication MFE README`_ for a complete list.

.. _Authentication MFE README: https://github.com/openedx/frontend-app-authn/blob/master/README.rst

Discussions Micro-frontend (MFE)
--------------------------------

> The Discussions MFE is included in the Olive release, but is not enabled by default. You can control which learners will see it with the waffle flag :code:`discussions.enable_discussions_mfe`. To configure course discussions, the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe` must be enabled as well.

Reviewer 3: Actually, as of Friday, it *is* enabled by default. :)

.. image:: ../images/olive/discussions.png
    :alt: Learner view of Discussions Micro-frontend

See the `New discussions forum experience wiki page`_ for a detailed explanation of new and improved functionality.

Known issues: Discussions MFE (rendered in Discussions tab) uses tinyMCE v5 which is a different text editor compared to the in-line discussions. As a result, there are some incompatibilities:

#. Hyperlinks created in MFE do not appear in in-line discussions
#. Images uploaded in MFE do not appear in in-line discussions in some cases
#. Code formatted in MFE do not appear formatted in in-line discussions

.. _New discussions forum experience wiki page: https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/COMM/pages/3509551260/New+discussions+forum+experience+-+Course+teams+and+moderators

Learner Records Micro-frontend (MFE)
------------------------------------

> - The Learner records MFE is now available as an optional frontend for the Credentials application. See the `Learner Records MFE README`_ for configuration information.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: maybe we should explicitly mention that Credentials needs to be installed and running for the LRMFE to work?

Reviewer 4: What is the Learner Records MFE?

Reviewer: +1, would love to see some more info here so that operators would know what they'd be changing by enabling the LRMFE. I have a vague understanding that the MFE is incrementally replacing some legacy pages from Crededentials (and LMS too?), but I don't know enough to write the blurb myself.

 @hurtstotouchfire would you be able to suggest a sentence or two on what the LRMFE adds to Olive?

- Even if the the Learner Records MFE is turned on, the old UI is still used for public links to records. This will be changed in the Palm release. (this may have been backported already)
- Masquerading is not supported, as it is in the legacy UI. Use the "Records" tab in support tools as an alternative.

.. _Learner Records MFE README: https://github.com/openedx/frontend-app-learner-record/blob/open-release/olive.master/README.rst

Other Learner Experience changes
--------------------------------

- add reset option to the Randomized Content Block. See this `video demo <https://www.loom.com/share/91b7224cb8a74cf2891a240b6e4fb8c6>`_ for the new user experience.
- tabs will now display in a consistent order: Course, Progress, Dates, Discussion, etc.
- "Live" tab displayed on course when live content is enabled (for example, Zoom or Big Blue Button)

Instructor Experiences
======================

.. _course-authoring-mfe:

Course Authoring Micro-frontend (MFE)
-------------------------------------

> The Course Authoring Micro-frontend is included in the Olive release. It is enabled by setting :code:`COURSE_AUTHORING_MICROFRONTEND_URL`. The Course Authoring MFE allows for several new features, including :ref:`pages-and-resources` in Studio, and a new :ref:`text-html-editor` and a new :ref:`video-editor`. More details on each of these features are below, and in the `Course Authoring MFE README`_.

Reviewer 3: We should mention that the MFE itself is enabled by default: the fact we mention the MFE URL explicitly might lead people to think otherwise.

We should also mention that only the Pages & Resources feature is enabled by default.  The new editors are not.

Finally, I think we should also say here that of the new editors, only the HTML editor is production-ready.  I ran into issues testing the Video editor: the video preview wasn't working.  And the problem one is just a place-holder, of course.

.. _Course Authoring MFE README: https://github.com/openedx/frontend-app-course-authoring/blob/open-release/olive.master/README.rst

.. _pages-and-resources:

Pages & Resources
-----------------

> Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe`, when this feature is enabled course authors can now get to the Pages & Resources view from the Content menu (it replaces the "Pages" menu item). This is a modular interface for settings for various course applications and tools. Depending on which ones are enabled, they can include Progress, Discussion, Notes, Wiki, Calculator, Custom pages, Proctoring, and Textbooks. The waffle flag :code:`discussions.pages_and_resources_mfe` must be set to enable access to Pages & Resources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe`, when this feature is enabled course authors can now get to the Pages & Resources view from the Content menu (it replaces the "Pages" menu item). This is a modular interface for settings for various course applications and tools. Depending on which ones are enabled, they can include Progress, Discussion, Notes, Wiki, Calculator, Custom pages, Proctoring, and Textbooks. The waffle flag :code:`discussions.pages_and_resources_mfe` must be set to enable access to Pages & Resources.  (It is enabled by default.)
```

.. image:: ../images/olive/page_and_resources_view.png
    :alt: new Pages & Resources page in Studio

.. _text-html-editor:

Text / HTML Editor
-------------------

Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe` the new Text Editor includes updates that make it even easier to include text and images in your course content. Set the waffle flag :code:`new_core_editors.use_new_text_editor` to enable it. The newly updated editor:

- makes incorporating special characters and symbols easier,
- adds undo / redo actions,
- lets you author tables without going into HTML mode,
- makes emoticons easy to include
- and more.

.. _video-editor:

Video Editor
------------

> Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe`, the new video editor can be enabled by setting the waffle flag :code:`new_core_editors.use_new_text_editor`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe`, the new video editor can be enabled by setting the waffle flag :code:`new_core_editors.use_new_video_editor`
```

.. image:: ../images/olive/video_editor_view.png
    :alt: new Video Editor in Studio

Discussions
-----------

> - Send out an email to discussion moderators when a content (post/response/comment) is reported. See https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/pull/30276 for more details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An email can now be sent out to discussion moderators when content (post/response/comment) is reported.  To use it, set the :code:`discussions.enable_reported_content_email_notifications` waffle flag.  See https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/pull/30276 for more details.
```

In order to make testing Open edX easier, `this course and its associated libraries`_ aim to expose as many Open edX Studio & courseware features as possible. It does so by providing example usages of various block types and by enabling various features through Advanced Settings.

.. _this course and its associated libraries: https://github.com/openedx/openedx-test-course

Hooks Extension Framework
-------------------------

As part of `OEP-55`_, the following filters were added in olive:

- :code:`certificate.render.started`
- :code:`cohort.change.requested.v1`
- :code:`course_about.render.started`
- :code:`dashboard.render.started.v1`
- :code:`certificate.creation.requested`

.. _OEP-55: https://open-edx-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/architectural-decisions/oep-0050-hooks-extension-framework.html

Researcher & Data Experiences
=============================

* Added analytics event on recommendation course click, :code:`edx.bi.user.recommended.course.click`
* added tracking event on learner search (in discussions)
* added many new discussion events, including :code:`edx.forum.thread.edited`, :code:`edx.forum.response.edited`, :code:`edx.forum.comment.edited`

> 

Author: I added a Known Issues section. I feel like this could be an infinite list, but I guess we'll start with two bullets.

 :depth: 1
 :local:

Breaking Changes
================

All grades are persisted
------------------------

> The Persistent Grades feature was added as an option in Hawthorne. Legacy, non-persistent grades were deprecated in Nutmeg. Now, persistent grades are required. If you have not turned on persistent grades in your installation yet, when you upgrade to Olive, grades will not appear on learners' Progress page or in data downloads. You must follow the instructions in `Migrating to Persistent Grading`_ for grades to appear. This process can take a significant amount of time, depending on how many graded problems are in your installation, and how long those grades take to be calculated. It can be run before or after the upgrade.

Reviewer 5: Can you please specify that existing Tutor user are not affected and do not have to migrate persistent grades because they were enabled in Nutmeg?

Author: I made that more explicit. Let me know if it isn't clear.

.. _Migrating to Persistent Grading: https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AC/pages/755171487/Migrating+to+Persistent+Grading

Learning MFE is now required
----------------------------

> The Learning Micro Frontend (MFE) is no longer optional, and must be run as part of your installation. It has been the default since the Maple release, with a setting that allowed for opting out. The setting :code:`courseware.use_legacy_frontend` has been removed. (See Deprecations & Removals below for more).

Reviewer 5: In Tutor terms, this means that the MFE plugin must be installed and enabled (see below).

Author: Sorry, I don't understand what change you're proposing. And I don't know what you are referring to when you say "see below"

Author: Ok, now I think I understand. Does this cover it now? 

https://edx--2093.org.readthedocs.build/projects/open-edx-release-notes/en/2093/olive.html#learning-mfe-is-now-required

- adds undo / redo actions,
- lets you author tables without going into HTML mode,
- makes emoticons easy to include
- and more.

.. _video-editor:

Video Editor
------------
Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe`, the new video editor can be enabled by setting the waffle flag :code:`new_core_editors.use_new_video_editor`

.. image:: ../images/olive/video_editor_view.png
    :alt: new Video Editor in Studio

Discussions
-----------

An email can now be sent out to discussion moderators when content (post/response/comment) is reported.  To use it, set the :code:`discussions.enable_reported_content_email_notifications` waffle flag.  See https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/pull/30276 for more details.

Other Instructor Experience changes
-----------------------------------

- Course authors can optionally set Randomized Content Blocks to display a reset option. This allows students to use the Randomize Content Block as a problem-bank for studying. See this `video demo <https://www.loom.com/share/91b7224cb8a74cf2891a240b6e4fb8c6>`_ for the new user experience.
- upgraded TinyMCE version 4 to version 5.5.1.

Administrators & Operators

> ==========================

Author: Sure, but what context should I provide? When I look at the changelog, it's not obvious to me which changes are relevant to olive.

> ==========================

Author: I added a link. Let me know if you have any edits or clarifications.

MFE runtime configuration support
---------------------------------

Where up until Nutmeg it was only possible to change a micro-frontend's settings at build time, it is now possible to do so at both server _and_ browser runtime via a new configuration mechanism.  In addition to the added convenience, this significantly reduces the frequency at which MFE container images need to be rebuilt.  Many operators will never have to build them to begin with, as pre-built ones can be (and are) provided, thus saving up precious time and resources on deployment.

> 

Reviewer 2: I can provide context, the thing I am note following correctly, is the docs seems to be written in a perspective of outside tutor/tutor-mfe ecosystem, and that being said, you can use dynamic config without tutor and there wouldn’t be a breaking changes by default as to my knowledge. 

On the other hand the part about not needed to rebuild the image, for that I can say that
1. you don’t need to rebuild the image for specific args using dynamic config 
1. With ( specific set up, a proxy role) + (dynamic config) you might not need to rebuild the image at all 
   1. This the default case for tutor-mfe 
   1. This can be useful  for other providers even outside tutor-mfe, consider the case you have different LMS instances but you want to proivde same MFEs for all of them, then in theory you can build the your mfe image once for all the instances
   
  ## The case of 2.i 
   
Now to recap for the case of 2.i there are breaking changes, because some patches for tutor are no longer used, and would need to use patch in order to override config values. 

## The case of 2.ii 

For the caes of 2.ii, to be do that the simple trick we used in tutor-mfe is that we use the following: 

Build a container image for an MFE with the following env variables: 

### Changes at MFE level 
```
ENV APP_ID=<MFE-name> #Name to need to match the name in LMS settings
ENV PUBLIC_PATH='mfe-name' # Only needed if you server multiple MFE from same domina
ENV MFE_CONFIG_API_URL=/api/mfe_config/v1
```

### Changes in LMS:

- As you already said, one need to set the featuer flag of dynamic config API. 
- You can define configuration all apply to all 
- You can define configuration per mfe hence `APP_ID` above 

### Proxy role

Recall we set `MFE_CONFIG_API_URL=/api/mfe_config/v1`  above, this means that the MFE will will make a **relative** API call to it's host, i.e. but however this request is meant to be served by the LMS, thus for this proxy to work correctly; _The MFE host (be it nginx, caddy,...etc) needs to know the hsot of the LMS in order to create a proxy role such that: 

`When reqeust is prefiex with `/api/mfe_config/v1 => LMS_HOST`. 

Last Note: regarding this case of 2.ii, we have tested and made few changes in order for it to work as expected, _to ensure consumer MFE do get their LMS/CMS url from dynamic config). So note this probably important and relevant in case people want to make their set up using 2.ii **and are using MFE that is officialy in ollive branch**

Reviewer 3: We're discussing whether to include 2.i here [in Slack](https://openedx.slack.com/archives/C049JQZFR5E/p1670854510775359?thread_ts=1670792405.761119&cid=C049JQZFR5E), but I'm pretty sure 2.ii and the proxy role should be a forum post, as opposed to part of the official documentation.  Sort of a "This is How We Solved the Container Build Problem With Tutor".

As for the LMS changes and specific feature documentation, the link to the ADR should take care of it.

Author: > the docs seems to be written in a perspective of outside tutor/tutor-mfe ecosystem

The docs should be written from the Tutor perspective. If they aren't please point out where changes should be made. 

I don't think we need to address your case of 2.ii since it is outside the Tutor ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: @pdpinch for tutor_mfe the way it's set up it's not optional to not use dynamic config, bceause tutor-mfe utilzie the the case (2). And it would be really messy if tutor to support 1 and 2 in the sametime _that was the census at the time we add this change_... 

So in summary it's dynamic config is optional if you don't rely on tutor/tutor-mfe, while it's not if your have your setup/deployment. 

But again do we want to mention the docs here or in the release notes of tutor or/and tutor-mfe?

Reviewer 3: I've offered a suggested change [below](https://github.com/openedx/edx-documentation/pull/2093/files#r1046104339).

Author: see https://github.com/openedx/edx-documentation/pull/2093#issuecomment-1347668945

 :depth: 1
 :local:

Breaking Changes
================

All grades are persisted
------------------------
The Persistent Grades feature was added as an option in Hawthorne. Legacy, non-persistent grades were deprecated in Nutmeg and enabled by default in Tutor. Now, persistent grades are required.

> If you are not using Tutor, and have not turned on persistent grades in your installation yet, grades will disappear from learners' Progress pages and in Instructors' data downloads when you upgrade to Olive. You must follow the instructions in `Migrating to Persistent Grading`_ for grades to appear. This process can take a significant amount of time, depending on how many graded problems are in your installation, and how long those grades take to be calculated. It can be run before or after the upgrade.

Author: Is it safe to assume that operators read the release notes before they upgrade? I just wanted to reassure them that all is not lost after the upgrade.

> If you are not using Tutor, and have not turned on persistent grades in your installation yet, grades will disappear from learners' Progress pages and in Instructors' data downloads when you upgrade to Olive. You must follow the instructions in `Migrating to Persistent Grading`_ for grades to appear. This process can take a significant amount of time, depending on how many graded problems are in your installation, and how long those grades take to be calculated. It can be run before or after the upgrade.

Reviewer 4: "While we recommend this be run before the upgrade, to ensure learners experience no disruptions to their Progress pages, it will work if it is run after the upgrade."

Does that sound right and accurate?

.. _Migrating to Persistent Grading: https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AC/pages/755171487/Migrating+to+Persistent+Grading

Learning MFE is now required
----------------------------
The Learning Micro Frontend (MFE) is no longer optional, and must be run as part of your installation. It has been the default since the Maple release, with a setting that allowed for opting out. The setting :code:`courseware.use_legacy_frontend` has been removed. (See Deprecations & Removals below for more).

JWT access tokens expire in 1 hour
----------------------------------

> The default expiration for JWT access tokens is now one hour. This default setting can be overriden by setting :code:`JWT_ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRE_SECONDS`.

Author: I added some more details, see https://edx--2093.org.readthedocs.build/projects/open-edx-release-notes/en/2093/olive.html#jwt-access-tokens-expire-in-1-hour

> Learner Experiences

Reviewer 4: I guess it'll be clear in the rendered RST, I just lost track in the raw.

===================

Authentication Micro-Frontend (MFE)
-----------------------------------

> The Authentication MFE is responsible for the login, registration and password reset functionality. It is enabled by default in Olive and has all the same features as the legacy login and registration pages. You can revert to the legacy experience by setting :code:`FEATURES['ENABLE_AUTHN_MICROFRONTEND']` to False.

Reviewer 3: Great question.  Not a clue.

.. image:: ../images/olive/authn.png
    :alt: The authentication Micro-frontend

There are a number of settings that affect this experience. See the `Authentication MFE README`_ for a complete list.

.. _Authentication MFE README: https://github.com/openedx/frontend-app-authn/blob/master/README.rst

Discussions Micro-frontend (MFE)
--------------------------------

> The Discussions MFE is included in the Olive release and enabled by default. You can control which learners will see it with the waffle flag :code:`discussions.enable_discussions_mfe`. To configure course discussions, the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe` must be enabled as well.

Reviewer 4: do we know when the legacy experience will be deprecated?

.. image:: ../images/olive/discussions.png
    :alt: Learner view of Discussions Micro-frontend

See the `New discussions forum experience wiki page`_ for a detailed explanation of new and improved functionality.

> Known issues: Discussions MFE (rendered in Discussions tab) uses tinyMCE v5 which is a different text editor compared to the in-line discussions. As a result, there are some incompatibilities:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Known issues**: Discussions MFE (rendered in Discussions tab) uses tinyMCE v5 which is a different text editor compared to the in-line discussions. As a result, there are some incompatibilities:
```

just emphasizing that more. Could also be a minor heading but I forget the next header down after `---`

Reviewer 4: Any thought on including this?

#. Hyperlinks created in MFE do not appear in in-line discussions
#. Images uploaded in MFE do not appear in in-line discussions in some cases
#. Code formatted in MFE do not appear formatted in in-line discussions

.. _New discussions forum experience wiki page: https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/COMM/pages/3509551260/New+discussions+forum+experience+-+Course+teams+and+moderators

Learner Records Micro-frontend (MFE)
------------------------------------

- The Learner records MFE is now available as an optional frontend for the Credentials application. See the `Learner Records MFE README`_ for configuration information.

> - Even if the the Learner Records MFE is turned on, the old UI is still used for public links to records. This will be changed in the Palm release. (this may have been backported already)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Even if the the Learner Records MFE is turned on, the old UI is still used for public links to records. This will be changed in the Palm release.
```

Reminder to remove this before publishing, whatever the outcome is

- Masquerading is not supported, as it is in the legacy UI. Use the "Records" tab in support tools as an alternative.

.. _Learner Records MFE README: https://github.com/openedx/frontend-app-learner-record/blob/open-release/olive.master/README.rst

Other Learner Experience changes
--------------------------------

- add reset option to the Randomized Content Block. See this `video demo <https://www.loom.com/share/91b7224cb8a74cf2891a240b6e4fb8c6>`_ for the new user experience.

> - tabs will now display in a consistent order: Course, Progress, Dates, Discussion, etc.

Reviewer 4: I thought this happened at least one if not more releases ago. I also recall seeing a list of the canonical ordering.

Author: You're right. My method for reviewing olive PRs picked this up because there were post-nutmeg comments on the PR. I'll remove it.

- "Live" tab displayed on course when live content is enabled (for example, Zoom or Big Blue Button)

Instructor Experiences
======================

.. _course-authoring-mfe:

Course Authoring Micro-frontend (MFE)
-------------------------------------

> The Course Authoring Micro-frontend is included and enabled in the Olive release, but only the :ref:`pages-and-resources` feature is turned on.

Reviewer 4: enabled by default, or optionally enabled?

.. _Course Authoring MFE README: https://github.com/openedx/frontend-app-course-authoring/blob/open-release/olive.master/README.rst

.. _pages-and-resources:

Pages & Resources
-----------------

Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe`, when this feature is enabled course authors can now get to the Pages & Resources view from the Content menu (it replaces the "Pages" menu item). This is a modular interface for settings for various course applications and tools. Depending on which ones are enabled, they can include Progress, Discussion, Notes, Wiki, Calculator, Custom pages, Proctoring, and Textbooks. The waffle flag :code:`discussions.pages_and_resources_mfe` must be set to enable access to Pages & Resources.

.. image:: ../images/olive/page_and_resources_view.png
    :alt: new Pages & Resources page in Studio

.. _text-html-editor:

Text / HTML Editor
-------------------

> Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe` the new Text Editor includes updates that make it even easier to include text and images in your course content. Set the waffle flag :code:`new_core_editors.use_new_text_editor` to enable it. The newly updated editor:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe`, the new Text Editor includes updates that make it even easier to include text and images in your course content. Set the waffle flag :code:`new_core_editors.use_new_text_editor` to enable it. The newly updated editor:
```

- makes incorporating special characters and symbols easier,
- adds undo / redo actions,
- lets you author tables without going into HTML mode,

> - makes emoticons easy to include

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- makes emoticons easy to include,
```

- and more.

.. _video-editor:

Video Editor
------------

> Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe`, the new video editor is not production ready. If you want to experiment with it, you can be enable it by setting the waffle flag :code:`new_core_editors.use_new_video_editor`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe`, the new video editor is not production ready. If you want to experiment with it, you can enable it by setting the waffle flag :code:`new_core_editors.use_new_video_editor`
```

.. image:: ../images/olive/video_editor_view.png
    :alt: new Video Editor in Studio

Discussions
-----------

> An email can now be sent out to discussion moderators when content (post/response/comment) is reported.  To use it, set the :code:`discussions.enable_reported_content_email_notifications` waffle flag.  See https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/pull/30276 for more details.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An email can now be sent out to discussion moderators when content (post/response/comment) is reported.  To use it, set the :code:`discussions.enable_reported_content_email_notifications` waffle flag.  See `the GitHub pull request <https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/pull/30276>`_ for more details.
```

Author: the raw link works just as well

Other Instructor Experience changes
-----------------------------------

- Course authors can optionally set Randomized Content Blocks to display a reset option. This allows students to use the Randomize Content Block as a problem-bank for studying. See this `video demo <https://www.loom.com/share/91b7224cb8a74cf2891a240b6e4fb8c6>`_ for the new user experience.

> - upgraded TinyMCE version 4 to version 5.5.1.

Reviewer 4: Is that everywhere? Above you said the discussions MFE made it so that formatting changes from tinyMCE 5 wasn't going to be displayed in the inline discussions

Author: I think this refers specifically to Studio and not discussions. I'll see if I can reconstruct the scope of the change.

Reviewer 4: I'd still like this addressed before I give approval, it confused me to read that tinyMCE 5 broke inline discussions yet that it's upgraded everywhere. If it's indeed the case that it was only upgraded everywhere in Studio, but not in LMS, I think it'd be good to note that explicitly (even though this is under the "Instructor Experience changes" section).

This behavior is optional and controlled by the :code:`ENABLE_MFE_CONFIG_API` Django setting in the LMS, and the :code:`APP_ID` and :code:`MFE_CONFIG_API_URL` MFE build-time settings.  The actual runtime configuration can then be specified via the :code:`MFE_CONFIG` and :code:`MFE_CONFIG_OVERRIDES` variables in the LMS.  (These can also be overriden via `site configuration <https://edx.readthedocs.io/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/latest/configuration/sites/configure_site.html>`_, with the effect that such configuration can be changed dynamically via the backing database.)  For more details, refer to the `corresponding architecture decision record <https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/blob/open-release/olive.master/lms/djangoapps/mfe_config_api/docs/decisions/0001-mfe-config-api.rst>`_.

> 

Reviewer 3: @pdpinch, see if this makes sense to you:

```suggestion

Upgrade note
~~~~~~~~~~~~

In Tutor, :code:`ENABLE_MFE_CONFIG_API` is not only enabled and used by default by all supported MFEs, but the mechanism of setting some MFE settings via Tutor configuration is no longer supported.  When upgrading from Nutmeg to Olive, the following variables can no longer be set via :code:`tutor config save --set`:

* Account MFE: :code:`COACHING_ENABLED` and :code:`ENABLE_DEMOGRAPHICS_COLLECTION`
* Profile MFE: :code:`ENABLE_LEARNER_RECORD_MFE`

Instead, the recommended way for a Tutor plugin to change MFE settings from Olive onwards is to use the :code:`openedx-lms-production-settings` and :code:`openedx-lms-development-settings` hooks to change :code:`MFE_CONFIG` or :code:`MFE_CONFIG_OVERRIDES` as needed.  For instance::

  MFE_CONFIG["PLATFORM_NAME"] = "My Awesome Platform"
  MFE_CONFIG_OVERRIDES["account"]["SITE_NAME"] = "My Awesome Site"

Also note that if you've maintained such plugin prior to Olive, the following hooks are no longer available after the upgrade::

* :code:`mfe-env-production`
* :code:`mfe-env-development`

You must instead migrate your MFE settings to the LMS settings hooks as described above.

Reviewer 2: Exactly what @arbrandes is saying here what we I think refer as breaking changes

So if in Nutmeg or earlies release you made use of `mfe-env-production` or/and `mfe-env-development` tutor patches, then you have to migrate them.  But now if you don't use them then probably there is no thing you need to do. And probably you will be able to upgrade to Olive without rebuilding your tutor-mfe image, unless you use other patche like `mfe-dockerfile-post-npm-install` . 

So again in summary let's take all the cases: 

 1. You use tutor-mfe while you **don't make use** of  A) (`mfe-env-production`, and `mfe-env-development`) , B) and `mfe-dockerfile-post-npm-install` 
    1. You don't need to do anything in this case and actually you suppose to be able to migrate to Olive without building the tutor-mfe image 
        
 1. You use tutor-mfe while you **do make use** of  A) (`mfe-env-production`, and `mfe-env-development`) , B) and **not** `mfe-dockerfile-post-npm-install` 
    1. You would need to migrate the patches as @arbrandes mention above but still you don't need to rebuild the image just like 1.i
    
   1. You use tutor-mfe while you **don't make use** of   (`mfe-env-production`, and.or  `mfe-env-development`) , but  **do make use** of  `mfe-dockerfile-post-npm-install` 
     i. You don't need to need to need to anything regarding migrating to patches, you still need to rebuild your tutor-mfe image, just like the case where you have to rebuild tutor openedx image in case you use `openedx-dockerfile-pre-assets` or simliar patches. 

  1. Also I think there is another case where migration or build might be needed,  if opreator where to override a settings per MFE, i.e. `--set tutor config save --set MFE_EXAMPLE_MFE_APP={'name': 'example', 're' env: {'production':{'key':name'}, {'key':name'} } 'repository': 'https://github.com/frontend-app-example', }` 
      1. If opreator override 'env' then you need to migrate them using spefically `MFE_CONFIG_OVERRIDES["example"]`
        1. in case for 'env'['production'] then use `openedx-lms-production-settings` and same for development
      1. if opreator to override `repository` then they need to rebuild the image, because by default tutor-mfe image uses default repo with the default openrealse branch, just like you need to rebuild the openedx image in case you have run your own fork. 

This my understanding of the changes and how it's affected different use cases with tutor-mfe. So in summary is it breaking change, short anwer as always **it depends**.

Reviewer: @ghassanmas is it that complicated? The way I see it is:

Upgrading to a new release will automatically force the MFE image to be rebuild (or re-pulled) because the frontend-app repository URLs will change to point to the new release's tags. So, we can assume that every operator will re-build or pull the image at least *once*. We don't need to mention this in the release notes; it'll just happen.

Then, operators will need to change their settings to use runtime config, as a @arbrandes describes above. **This** is the breaking change, and it'll apply to ~100% of operators using tutor-mfe, since nobody is running the default settings in production.

Then, going forward, operators who *don't* patch any of `mfe-dockerfile-*` may choose to pull their images instead of building them. Operators who *do* patch any of `mfe-dockerfile-*` must continue building the mfe image... but this is nothing new, so I wouldn't call it a breaking change.

Reviewer 2: @kdmccormick I might been too explicit, there are of course things not realted to dynamic config, the reason I went to excplit is that I don't want opreators to confuse because it was **always the case that tutor-mfe image needed to rebuild** but now that is not the case.  

So my comment above is just a reflection, I didn't necessary meant we have to add literally as it's to the release docs.

Reviewer: Got it. Now that you've spelled it all out, it would be good to add that operators who don't use the Dockerfile patches or change config can now just pull the image.

Other Operator Experience changes
---------------------------------
- fixed a performance issue when using multiple themes when running in docker. Now by using LRU cache when searching themes,  the performance was improved.

Pre-Alpha Features
-------------------

The following Micro-frontends (MFEs) are in a "pre-alpha" state. They exist on GitHub but are not yet supported in Tutor. Additionally, they may lack key features such as support for theming, internationalization, and path-based deployments. We include mention of them because we expect all of them to be supported in the next release, Palm.

> * `Learner Record Micro-Frontend (MFE)`_

Reviewer 4: How is this in a pre-alpha state when it is mentioned above in the Learner Experiences section, with a lot of detail, and does not say "pre-alpha" up there?

Reviewer 3: +1.  I wouldn't call it pre-alpha.  For two reasons:

1. It works and is currently maintained; just not supported by Tutor.
2. It is not likely to ever be part of Tutor, and thus, it won't evolve from alpha, to beta, then to the implicit inclusion in Tutor.

Reviewer 4: Why are we mentioniong it in the Learner Experiences section? When I read that my assumption was those are the supported MFEs, supported by Tutor and available to run

Reviewer 3: @sarina, long story short: it was a middle ground after lots of back-and-forth with 2U.  BTR/Tutor doesn't/won't support it as an official part of the release, but for deprecation purposes it _is_ part of the release, so we must mention it in the Release Notes somewhere.

It's certainly debatable where it should go. 🤷🏼‍♂️

Reviewer 4: I think it should go in a separate
```
Unsupported by Tutor
----------------------
```

section after Pre-Alpha. I insist that putting it in Learner Experiences makes it seem like a feature I am ready to use and is a part of Olive, not something _unsupported_ by Tutor, that will _never_ be supported by Tutor.

Also why does it matter to 2U whether or not this MFE is related to the release?

Reviewer 3: +1 to the separate section.

It matters to 2U because if it's not part of an Open edX release, they can't deprecate the feature that it replaces, and thus can't remove it in the next release.

Reviewer 4: But if they deprecate the feature this replaces, yet this is unusable... how does that work?

Author: The feature it replaces has never been included in an open release, and it does not have a Tutor plugin.

Reviewer: ^ This

BTR has been struggling to answer the question of "What is in a release?". For the purpose of deprecation, we made the ad-hoc decision that the old thing (Learner Records MFE) must be "as released" as the thing it is deprecating (Credentials) was. Both of them are tagged, but not run in Tutor by default.

(Side note: It's not that these things can't run in Tutor; it's that there's no officially supported Tutor plugin for them. A savvy operator could figure out how to run either of them.)

Reviewer 4: I am so confused I'm proabbyl gonna bow out of this, it makes no sense to me though.

If feature A has never been a part of Open edX release
and feature B was created to replace feature A

why would B need to be in the Open edX release at all, or block a team from removing Feature A?

Reviewer 3: You're not the only confused one.  It took us a while to hash it out, and I'm confused myself.

The core of the problem is that it's not clear what constitutes an Open edX release.  It's clearly not just what Tutor supports: we tagged 39 repositories today, and a significant fraction of them is not in Tutor.

On the other hand, what does it mean for something to be released but not installable by any supported means?

Yeah.  Not sure either.  I guess this is something to hash out via OEP-57, the upcoming OEP-61, the maintainers project, the Product Quality draft... And I'm still probably missing something, haha

Reviewer 3: Oh, and the specific reason 2U is concerned about inclusion is not only the DEPR process, but the [BTR MFE requirements checklist](https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/COMM/pages/3561521275/Requirements+for+an+MFE), which in item 12 states that a new MFE must allow one full release cycle of deprecation before removal of a legacy feature it replaces.

Reviewer 3: (And the reason THAT's there is to avoid the whole ecommerce situation, where the payments MFE was introduced at the same release the legacy feature it replaced was dropped.)

Author: Okay, I changed "Pre Alpha" to "Unsupported in Tutor"

And I removed the section on the Learner Record MFE. It only contained a (duplicate) link to the readme and two known issues. I'm not opposed to saying something more about it. But, as I wrote it, it's more confusing than informative.

* :code:`bypass_olx_failure`
* :code:`PersistentGradesEnabledFlag.enabled`
* :code:`course_experience.latest_update`
* :code:`course_home.course_home_use_legacy_frontend`
* :code:`courseware.microfrontend_course_team_preview`
* :code:`courseware.use_legacy_frontend`
* :code:`grades.assume_zero_grade_if_absent`
* :code:`split_library_on_studio_dashboard`

Deprecations & Removals
=======================

Legacy learner experience
-------------------------
A few pieces of the legacy/deprecated learner experience have been removed entirely in favor of the Learning MFE experience, specifically, the outline, dates, and courseware tabs. Instead, you must run the Learning MFE, and its tabs will be used. Along with the legacy code, a few old waffle flags have been removed: :code:`course_experience.latest_update`, :code:`course_experience.show_upgrade_msg_on_course_home`, :code:`course_experience.upgrade_deadline_message`, :code:`course_home.course_home_use_legacy_frontend`, :code:`courseware.microfrontend_course_team_preview`, and :code:`courseware.use_legacy_frontend`.

Legacy OLX attributes translations removed
------------------------------------------

> Support for importing courses that use obsolete XML attributes has been removed. Courses with attributes :code:`slug`, :code:`name` in course tags, :code:`display_name` and :code:`id` in discussion tags and :code:`attempts` in problem tags, will no longer import properly. A simple import and export before upgrading will update the XML attributes. See https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/74 for more details.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Support for importing courses that use obsolete XML attributes has been removed. Courses with attributes :code:`slug`, :code:`name` in course tags, :code:`display_name` and :code:`id` in discussion tags and :code:`attempts` in problem tags, will no longer import properly. A simple import and export before upgrading will update the XML attributes. See `the GitHub pull request <https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/74>`_ for more details.
```

I'm pretty sure if you put in a raw URL, RST will not render it as clickable.

Reviewer 4: Ah nah it's fine

- `Removed Learner View in Insights, Data Pipeline and API`_
- The `frontend-learner-portal-base repo`_ has been archived. Any MFEs that depend on this library have been updated.
- `Removed dependency in ecommerce application on deprecated v1 catalog API`_.
- Removed all dependencies on `django-ratelimit-backend library`_.

.. _frontend-learner-portal-base repo: https://github.com/openedx-unsupported/frontend-learner-portal-base
.. _Removed the last vestiges of the save option from anonymous_id_for_user: https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/35
.. _Removed Learner View in Insights, Data Pipeline and API: https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/36kl
.. _Molecular Structure Problem type: https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/14
.. _Removed dependency in ecommerce application on deprecated v1 catalog API: https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/61
.. _django-ratelimit-backend library: https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/12

.. include:: links.rst
.. include:: ../../links/links.rst

Developer Experience
====================

Open edX Test Course
--------------------

> In order to make testing Open edX easier, `this course and its associated libraries`_ aim to expose as many Open edX Studio & courseware features as possible. It does so by providing example usages of various block types and by enabling various features through Advanced Settings.

Reviewer 4: O
```suggestion
In order to make testing your Open edX installation easier, `this course and its associated libraries`_ aim to expose as many Open edX Studio & courseware features as possible. It does so by providing example usages of various block types and by enabling various features through Advanced Settings.
```

Per trademark rules, `Open edX` is an adjective and must not be used as a noun in any location.

Author: Oh wow. I'll keep that in mind.

.. _this course and its associated libraries: https://github.com/openedx/openedx-test-course

Hooks Extension Framework
-------------------------

> As part of `OEP-55`_, the following filters were added in olive:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As part of `OEP-50`_, the following filters were added in Olive:
```

- :code:`certificate.render.started`
- :code:`cohort.change.requested.v1`
- :code:`course_about.render.started`
- :code:`dashboard.render.started.v1`
- :code:`certificate.creation.requested`

> .. _OEP-55: https://open-edx-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/architectural-decisions/oep-0050-hooks-extension-framework.html

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. _OEP-50: https://open-edx-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/architectural-decisions/oep-0050-hooks-extension-framework.html
```

Researcher & Data Experiences
=============================

* Added analytics event on recommendation course click, :code:`edx.bi.user.recommended.course.click`

> * added tracking event on learner search (in discussions)

Reviewer 4: what's the tracking event called?

> * added many new discussion events, including :code:`edx.forum.thread.edited`, :code:`edx.forum.response.edited`, :code:`edx.forum.comment.edited`

Reviewer 4: do we have a list of all of them?

Upgrade note
~~~~~~~~~~~~

In Tutor, :code:`ENABLE_MFE_CONFIG_API` is enabled and used by default by all supported MFEs.  Because of it, a previously supported mechanism of setting some MFE settings via Tutor configuration is no longer available.  When upgrading from Nutmeg to Olive, the following variables can no longer be set via :code:`tutor config save --set`:

* Account MFE: :code:`COACHING_ENABLED` and :code:`ENABLE_DEMOGRAPHICS_COLLECTION`
* Profile MFE: :code:`ENABLE_LEARNER_RECORD_MFE`

Instead, the recommended way to modify MFE settings from Olive onwards is to write a Tutor plugin and use the :code:`openedx-lms-production-settings` and :code:`openedx-lms-development-settings` hooks to change :code:`MFE_CONFIG` or :code:`MFE_CONFIG_OVERRIDES` as needed.  For instance::

  MFE_CONFIG["PLATFORM_NAME"] = "My Awesome Platform"
  MFE_CONFIG_OVERRIDES["account"]["SITE_NAME"] = "My Awesome Site"

Also note that if you've maintained such a plugin prior to Olive, the following hooks are no longer available after the upgrade::

* :code:`mfe-env-production`
* :code:`mfe-env-development`

You must instead migrate your MFE settings to the LMS settings hooks as described above.

> Other Operator Experience changes

Reviewer 3: I missed a trailing newline in my earlier suggestion (and this actually breaks the render).

```suggestion

Other Operator Experience changes
```

Reviewer 4: I think stylistically you need a new line above  and below the title text too, at least this is the convention followed in this and other RST files

```
You must instead migrate your MFE settings to the LMS settings hooks as described above.

Other Operator Experience changes
------------------------------------

- fixed
```

.. _Course Authoring MFE README: https://github.com/openedx/frontend-app-course-authoring/blob/open-release/olive.master/README.rst

.. _pages-and-resources:

Pages & Resources
-----------------

Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe`, when this feature is enabled course authors can now get to the Pages & Resources view from the Content menu (it replaces the "Pages" menu item). This is a modular interface for settings for various course applications and tools. Depending on which ones are enabled, they can include Progress, Discussion, Notes, Wiki, Calculator, Custom pages, Proctoring, and Textbooks. The waffle flag :code:`discussions.pages_and_resources_mfe` must be set to enable access to Pages & Resources.

.. image:: ../images/olive/page_and_resources_view.png
    :alt: new Pages & Resources page in Studio

.. _text-html-editor:

Text / HTML Editor
-------------------

> Part of the :ref:`course-authoring-mfe`, the new Text Editor includes updates that make it even easier to include text and images in your course content. Set the waffle flag :code:`new_core_editors.use_new_text_editor` to enable it. The newly updated editor:

Reviewer 4: I would mention that the "HTML component" is now the "Text Component" in Studio. See https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/OEPM/blog/2022/10/21/3560571009/2U+New+Text+HTML+Editing+Experience

.. _upgrade-note:

Upgrade note
~~~~~~~~~~~~

In Tutor, :code:`ENABLE_MFE_CONFIG_API` is enabled and used by default by all supported MFEs.  Because of it, a previously supported mechanism of setting some MFE settings via Tutor configuration is no longer available.  When upgrading from Nutmeg to Olive, the following variables can no longer be set via :code:`tutor config save --set`:

* Account MFE: :code:`COACHING_ENABLED` and :code:`ENABLE_DEMOGRAPHICS_COLLECTION`
* Profile MFE: :code:`ENABLE_LEARNER_RECORD_MFE`

Instead, the recommended way to modify MFE settings from Olive onwards is to write a Tutor plugin and use the :code:`openedx-lms-production-settings` and :code:`openedx-lms-development-settings` hooks to change :code:`MFE_CONFIG` or :code:`MFE_CONFIG_OVERRIDES` as needed.  For instance::

  MFE_CONFIG["PLATFORM_NAME"] = "My Awesome Platform"
  MFE_CONFIG_OVERRIDES["account"]["SITE_NAME"] = "My Awesome Site"

> Also note that if you've maintained such a plugin prior to Olive, the following hooks are no longer available after the upgrade::

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Also note that if you've maintained such a plugin prior to Olive, the following hooks are no longer available after the upgrade:
```
The double colon puts this in a code block but each item is already in a code block so you don't need to do that.

* :code:`mfe-env-production`
* :code:`mfe-env-development`

You must instead migrate your MFE settings to the LMS settings hooks as described above.

Other Operator Experience changes
---------------------------------

> - fixed a performance issue when using multiple themes when running in docker. Now by using LRU cache when searching themes,  the performance was improved.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
-  A performance issue that occurs when using multiple themes in a docker environment was fixed by using an LRU cache when searching themes.
```

Features not supported in Tutor
-------------------------------

The following Micro-frontends (MFEs) are in a "pre-alpha" state. They exist on GitHub but are not yet supported in Tutor. Additionally, they may lack key features such as support for theming, internationalization, and path-based deployments. We include mention of them because we expect all of them to be supported in the next release, Palm.

* `Learner Record Micro-Frontend (MFE)`_

> * `ORA Grading Micro-frontend (MFE)`_ `

Reviewer 3: Extraneous closing tick

```suggestion
* `ORA Grading Micro-frontend (MFE)`_
```

Support for importing courses that use obsolete XML attributes has been removed. Courses with attributes :code:`slug`, :code:`name` in course tags, :code:`display_name` and :code:`id` in discussion tags and :code:`attempts` in problem tags, will no longer import properly. A simple import and export before upgrading will update the XML attributes. See https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/74 for more details.

Other removals/deprecations
---------------------------

- The `Molecular Structure Problem type`_ was removed.
- `Removed the last vestiges of the save option from anonymous_id_for_user`_.
- `Removed Learner View in Insights, Data Pipeline and API`_
- The `frontend-learner-portal-base repo`_ has been archived. Any MFEs that depend on this library have been updated.
- `Removed dependency in ecommerce application on deprecated v1 catalog API`_.
- Removed all dependencies on `django-ratelimit-backend library`_.

.. _frontend-learner-portal-base repo: https://github.com/openedx-unsupported/frontend-learner-portal-base
.. _Removed the last vestiges of the save option from anonymous_id_for_user: https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/35

> .. _Removed Learner View in Insights, Data Pipeline and API: https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/36kl

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. _Removed Learner View in Insights, Data Pipeline and API: https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/36
```

I went to  https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/36 and it doesn't seem like it's removed. Last comment says there's a green light but "need to do it"

Author: I found three related PRs that seem to have removed this from the instructor-facing interfaces: 

- https://github.com/openedx/edx-analytics-data-api/pull/571
- https://github.com/openedx/edx-analytics-data-api-client/pull/89 
- https://github.com/openedx/edx-analytics-dashboard/pull/1332

I [commented on the DEPR ticket](https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/36#issuecomment-1356889564) to ask for more clarity, but I still think this has been removed.

.. _Molecular Structure Problem type: https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/14

> .. _Removed dependency in ecommerce application on deprecated v1 catalog API: https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/61

Reviewer 4: I don't think this is done based on the discussions in https://github.com/openedx/public-engineering/issues/61

- :code:`cohort.change.requested.v1`
- :code:`course_about.render.started`
- :code:`dashboard.render.started.v1`
- :code:`certificate.creation.requested`

.. _OEP-50: https://open-edx-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/architectural-decisions/oep-0050-hooks-extension-framework.html

Researcher & Data Experiences
=============================

* Added analytics event on recommendation course click, :code:`edx.bi.user.recommended.course.click`
* Added many new discussion events, including

  * :code:`edx.forum.thread.edited`
  * :code:`edx.forum.response.edited`
  * :code:`edx.forum.comment.edited`
  * :code:`edx.forum.thread.deleted`
  * :code:`edx.forum.response.deleted`
  * :code:`edx.forum.comment.deleted`
  * :code:`edx.forum.thread.locked`
  * :code:`edx.forum.thread.unlocked`
  * :code:`edx.forum.thread.edited`
  * :code:`edx.forum.response.edited`
  * :code:`edx.forum.comment.edited`
  * :code:`edx.forum.searched`

Known Issues
============

- The Authentication MFE contains some hard-coded mentioned of edX. We expect these will be fixed by the time Olive.2 is released.
- The Zoom tool is not working. There is currently no plan for when this may be fixed.

> - Android app support is currently limited to `Release 3.0.2 <https://github.com/openedx/edx-app-android/releases/tag/release%2F3.0.2>`_.

Reviewer 4: Do you know why this is, or what impact it might have? (decreased parity between apple and android maybe?)

Reviewer 4: That sounds good. I guess I wish release notes said a bit more about impact when we're describing what "known issues" there are.

Author: The Release notes for the Android app are pretty sparse, but I summarized the release notes between 3.2.2 and 3.0.2
